# Python_porject_Amlicon_analysis_for_SNP_detection

CRISPR is a powerful technology used for precise genetic engineering. It allows us to introduce deletions, insertions, or SNPs (single nucleotide polymorphisms) into the genome with high accuracy. 
However, the efficiency is not always 100%, and various unintended outcomes may occur, such as unwanted insertions caused by NHEJ (non-homologous end joining).

Amplicon sequencing is a method where we amplify (make many copies of) the specific gene region we want to edit, then sequence it using Illumina technology to analyze the DNA sequence.

# Project Aim

To comprehensively identify all genomic edits within a specific gene and quantify the proportion of cells carrying each distinct modification.

# How will this program help achieve this goal?

It takes DNA sequencing data generated by Illumina.
It compares the sequencing reads to a reference gene sequence.
It creates a table listing all detected sequence differences and calculates the Variant Allele Frequency (VAF) for each modification.

# input 
1. FASTQ files containing raw sequencing data
2. Reference gene sequence (genome)

# output 
1. An Excel file summarizing gene alterations and their frequencies
2. A plot visualizing the gene editing results

# Thecnical detailes
Use Python 3.7 or higher
How to download
git clone https://github.com/chenbibi2/Python_porject_Amlicon_analysis_for_SNP_detection.git

cd Python_porject_Amlicon_analysis_for_SNP_detection

install the dependencies

pip install -r requirements.txt

Runing the program
python main.py --fastq your_data.fastq --reference reference_gene.fasta
* Replace your_data.fastq and reference_gene.fasta with your actual data filenames.

Running Tests
pytest tests/

# This project was developed as part of Python course at Weizmann Institute
[WIS Python Course 2025-03](https://github.com/Code-Maven/wis-python-course-2025-03?tab=readme-ov-file).
